Draft for review (#2)
Jawz84/Blog: PowerShell Contributing.md

# Ten ways of contributing to PowerShell OSS

## How

> You can contribute by lending your time and expertise. There are so many ways to do so. Blogging, speaking, teaching, sharing code, writing modules, helping others on forums/channels to name a few. In this blog I want to focus on contributing to the PowerShell language directly. 

Reviewer: General comment on Markdown formatting before I forget!

Markdown doesn't treat a single line break as a new paragraph and instead converts it to a space, so it's often much easier to edit, reference, and review the Markdown if you have a reasonably consistent 1-sentence-per-line rule. 

You can do this with a find/replace if you wish; VS Code's find/replace and I'm sure other editors do as well -- quick regex to find sentence endings is `\.[ ]` and you can replace that with a linebreak or `\n` if regex tokens are accepted in the replacement box in your editor.

I'll drop back later this evening or in the next couple days to do a proper review, but my initial skim looks promising. Can't wait! 😊 💖

# Ten ways of contributing to PowerShell OSS

## Why this blog

> I found the documentation on how to contribute to PowerShell/PowerShell (which is [here](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)) a bit daunting.

Reviewer: You could potentially inline this link as part of the sentence (e..g, `I found [the documentation](link url) on how to contribute (...)`) so that it reads more fluidly. 🙂

Author: I've read through all your comments, and I agree on most of them so far. So I'm going to resolve quite a few without each time acknowledging that I agree 👍

The more links I followed, the more detailed and complex everything got.
At that point I felt I was not ready to contribute.
I did contribute anyway eventually.
And I realised there may be more people willing to contribute, but don't know where to start, and there does not seem to be a guide of how to start contributing to PowerShell in an easy way.

> Also there are more ways to contribute apart from contributing C# code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, there are ways to contribute apart from contributing C# code.
```

## How

You can contribute by lending your time and expertise.

> There are so many ways to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are so many ways to do so:
```

> Blogging, speaking, teaching, sharing code, writing modules, helping others on forums/channels to name a few.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blogging, speaking, teaching, sharing code, writing modules, or helping others on forums/channels (to name a few).
```

In this blog I want to focus on contributing to the PowerShell language directly.

## Where

There are a lot of repositories where you can contribute.
I choose to list these three, because here you can contribute to PowerShell itself most directly in my opinion:

- Documentation and Get-Help files: <https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs>
- Proposals about the language: <https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell-RFC>

> - Issues, code and tests: <https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Engine & Language Issues, code and tests: <https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell>
```

## Why contribute

If you use PowerShell and you like it, chances are you have gained benefit from it.
Why not give back? You may learn a thing or two on the way, and the PowerShell OSS community is very helpful and friendly too.

If you would like a more thorough reasoning, I can recommend [Joel's blogpost on this](https://vexx32.github.io/2019/01/03/Contributing-Open-Source/).

## Ten ways to contribute

> ### 1. File a bug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. File a bug report
```

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account

> If you use PowerShell as your daily driver, or use it often on sideprojects, you may eventually run into something odd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use PowerShell as your daily driver, or use it often on side projects, you may eventually run into something odd.
```

File that bug right here: <https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues>

This is what you will be asked for when filing a bug:

> - Make sure you are able to reproduce it on the [latest released version](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/releases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure you are able to reproduce it on the [latest released version](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/releases).
```

Author: Good point. I've gone through the whole text and checked all lists for this.

- Search the [existing issues](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues).
- Refer to the [FAQ](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/docs/FAQ.md).
- Refer to the [known issues](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/whats-new/known-issues-ps6?view=powershell-7).
- List steps to reproduce the bug
- Explain what you expected to happen

> - Tell what actually happened instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Describe what actually happened instead
```

Reviewer: For a list like this, you may want to pick whether you want to end each point with a period or not, and then be consistent at least across the whole list, if not across every list in the post 🙂

> - Paste in relevant environment info: output of $PSVersionTable and if any, the errormessage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Paste in relevant environment info: output of `$PSVersionTable` and if any, the error message.
```

When in doubt, just share what you encountered to check if it's a bug in PowerShell or not.
Good places to share are:

- [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com), tag your tweet with #pshelp

> - The [PowerShell Discord/Slack/IRC channel](http://poshcode.org/)

Reviewer: I would suggest including direct links to the various channels. I'm not sure if we have an IRC shortlink, but I remember these ones:

- https://aka.ms/psslack
- https://aka.ms/psdiscord

Author: shortlink for IRC is <https://poshcode.org/#irc> thanks, added these.

- The [PowerShell/PowerShell Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/PowerShell/PowerShell)

### 2. Help confirm bugs

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account

> Confirming bugs is going through bug issues and try if you can reproduce the bug too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirming bugs is going through recent bug report issues and trying to reproduce the bug.
```

> This helps assess if a bug is really a bug or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps assess if a reported bug is really a bug or not.
```

> To list all bugs, filter on the label ['Issue-Bug'](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AIssue-Bug)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To list all open bug reports, filter on the label ['Issue-Bug'](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AIssue-Bug)
```

Reviewer: I would mention that a lot of new reports are going to have `Issue-Discussion` tags as well; when you first open an issue on the PowerShell project, the automatic tag for a bug report is `Issue-Discussion`, which typically won't be changed until a maintainer or collaborator has seen that the bug has been confirmed / reproduced by others or can reproduce it themselves.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that this is a way to find confirmed bug reports, and to look through `Issue-Discussion` tags for unconfirmed reports.

Author: Thanks! I've rewritten this slightly, and used your wording to point people to Issue-Discussion.

You can comment in the issue whether or not you could repro it, and on which version of PowerShell.
Always try to reproduce a bug on the latest version of PowerShell.
Make sure you read the [FAQ](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/docs/FAQ.md) and the [known issues](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/whats-new/).

If a bug is reproducible, it can be tested and fixed.

> If a bug is not reproducable, more research may be needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a bug is not reproducible, more research may be needed.
```

> You may be able to help the filer of the bug with that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may be able to help the user who filed the bug with that.
```
You could write this either way tbh, but `filer` is a bit too easy to misread in my opinion. 🙂

> > Tip: consider 'Watching' the github repo.

Reviewer: If you wanted, you could replace `Tip:` with some kind of emoji; perhaps ℹ️ -- assuming your Markdown renderer supports Github emoji syntax you'd just do `:information_source:`

Author: I'm not sure if that would render on the actual GitHub.io blog as well, do you know this maybe? I like the idea.

You'll get a feel for what is going on daily.

### 3. Comment on language change proposals

> > Requires

Reviewer: Similar idea for these `Requires` things; you could make them stand out a bit with an emoji; perhaps 📌 (`:pushpin:`)?

> 
> - GitHub account

> Bigger changes or more complicated features/ideas go through the Request For Change (RFC) process.

Reviewer: You may want to be a bit more clear in your language here. It has changed a little over time, but as I understand it the following things currently require an RFC:

- Large-scale changes to cmdlets
- **Any** changes to core language features
- New language features
- Deprecation of outdated features

However, worth noting that the last guidance I heard from the PS Team was that they'd prefer the first stage of any such change is still filing a feature request-type issue first, so that they can gauge whether there's interest in the requested change and there's an opportunity to hammer out a fairly well-rounded first draft.

This is because RFCs tend to be longer-form documents, and it can get rather lengthy to review them if changes constantly need to be hashed out during the review process.

> Anyone can submit a prosal and  request comments from the community and the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone can submit a proposal and  request comments from the community and the PowerShell team.
```

Typically, an RFC will remain open for two months, to give everyone the opportunity to comment.

> Then the Committee will then make a decision on the subject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the PowerShell Committee will make the decision to approve or reject the RFC.
```

> The RFC may be discussed in the monthly call if there is reason to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RFC may also be discussed in the monthly call if there is reason to.
```

Reviewer: Possibly add a link to the RFC repo / the community call information pages?

The full process is explained here: <https://github.com/PowerShell/powershell-rfc/blob/master/RFC0000-RFC-Process.md>

By commenting on an RFC, you can influence how an idea is going to be implemented, if at all.

> Comments are valueable for the community and the committee to make a balanced decision, weighing all voices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comments are valuable for the community and the committee to make a balanced decision, weighing all voices.
```

### 4. Attend the monthly PowerShell community call

> Requires
> 
> - A microphone and speakers
> - You can even join anonymously if you like 
> 
> Optional
> 
> - MS Teams
> - A headset
> - A camera

> Every month, there is a call with PowerShell team members (committee) and community members are invited! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every month, there is a call with PowerShell team members and community members are invited! 
```

The Committee and the PS Team members are separate; currently all Committee members are either current or past members of the PS team, but not everyone on the PS product team is on the Committee.

They've also mentioned they have a desire to work out a process for adding community members to the Committee at some point in the future.

You can find the join link, as well as transcripts/youtube recordings of previous calls here: 
<https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell-RFC/tree/master/CommunityCall/>

Goal of the meeting is sharing roadmap/release info, and discussing RFC's.
You can join in, ask questions and let your voice be heard.

> Eg. if there is an RFC you have commented on, you can explain your view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if there is an RFC you have commented on, you can explain your view.
```

Most write-y folx I've heard tell that `e.g.,` is generally bad form as it's a bit less readable.

### 5. Suggest an improvement

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account

You can also come up with ideas yourself!

If you have a cool improvement for a cmdlet, a new feature or just a great idea, you can submit it as a [feature request](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Issue-Enhancement&template=Feature_Request.md&title=Feature+Request).

> The maintainers will look at your idea and let you know what they think. All genuine feature requests are handled with respect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maintainers will look at your idea and let you know what they think.
All genuine feature requests are handled with respect.
```

So don't be afraid to share your thoughts! 

Do take the time to find out if your idea has been proposed before and what was decided and why.
You can filter on the label 'Issue-Enhancement'.

In some cases it may be a good move to 'test' your idea against a few people first, before taking the time to fully explain what you have in mind in an issue, a great place to do so would be the [PowerShell Discord/Slack/IRC channel](link required).

### 6. Contribute Help content

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Knowledge of Markdown
> 
> Optional
> 
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)

> You can contribute by writing, improving, expanding help files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can contribute by writing, improving, or expanding help files.
```

> The ones that are used by Get-Help.

Reviewer: This sentence feels a bit redundant, almost. Perhaps try working it into the previous sentence?

> Especially more examples for cmdlets are always welcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, more examples for cmdlets are always welcome.
```

> Head over to the <https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/Powershell-Docs> repo, and read their [contributing manual](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Head over to the <https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/Powershell-Docs> repo, and read their [contributing manual](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.
```

> To do small contributions like typos, just navigate to that file, click the 'Edit' button, and GitHub will create a copy (fork) on your own GitHub for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do small contributions like correcting typos, just navigate to that file, click the 'Edit' button, and GitHub will create a copy (fork) on your own GitHub for you.
```

When you are satisfied with your changes, you can save them, and submit a pull request to the _staging_ branch of the PowerShell-Docs repository.

For bigger contributions, you are better off cloning your fork locally to your computer.
This enables you to use VSCode and other editing tools.
A guide on how to do that can be found [here](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/contributing/1-GET-STARTED.md#making-major-edits-to-existing-topics).

> With more examples, less typos, clearer wording, PowerShell can be easier to learn and use for everyone!

Reviewer: Somewhere in here you may also want to note that many help files have individual files for each version of PowerShell they're written for, and that you contributors may be asked to correct issues in multiple files rather than just fixing it in the most recent file (if the issue exists in older versions of the document as well), since help files for all versions back to PS v5.1 are still being maintained.

### 7. Write Pester tests

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Sign [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com/)
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)
> - Know how to run tests

> > - Pester 4.2 or higher

Reviewer: I could be wrong, but if I recall correctly the version of Pester that is packaged with PowerShell is a fair bit more recent than that?

> - Pester knowledge 

Within the PowerShell project, many parts are tested automatically.
A big part of that is done with Pester.
See [here](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/tree/master/test/powershell).

> Many CmdLets could use better or more extensive tests to check if they keep working correctly when someone would change them in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many Cmdlets could use better or more extensive tests to verify they keep working correctly if someone changes them in the future.
```

> So the Pester tests for CmdLets are kind of a safeguard against regression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the Pester tests for Cmdlets are kind of a safeguard against regression.
```

> When there are more/better tests for CmdLets, you can possibly prevent future bugs!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there are more/better tests for Cmdlets, you can possibly prevent future bugs!
```

Author: I've changed all these across the document in one go.

> See also "Details about contributing to the PowerShell/PowerShell repo", especially the section on how to run tests.

Reviewer: I would recommend making that a link. Most Markdown renderers add anchor points on a heading. The ones I've used work kinda like this:

```md
## Heading Name - Thing

some text here

## some other heading

[link](#heading-name-thing)
```

i.e., it uses the heading name minus special characters, and replaces spaces with `-` dashes

Author: Yes, great idea! It had crossed my mind, but hadn't looked up the syntax yet :-)

Author: fixed now.

### 8. Write C# code for PowerShell

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Sign [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com/)
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)
> - Pester knowledge/know how to run test suite
> - An Integrated Development Environment that supports C#, like VSCode or Visual Studio.
> - C# knowledge

> Well, duh :) When you solve an issue from the PowerShell/PowerShell repo by submitting code, you can make people's lives easier! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you solve an issue from the PowerShell/PowerShell repo by submitting code, you can make people's lives easier! 
```

It's really up to you, but personally I would pick a more professional way to phrase that if you do include it. 🙂

Depending on your level of C# knowledge and experience, pick an issue that suits you, and let others know by commenting on the issue, that you would like to take it on.

> I picked a very small [issue](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/pull/9901), adding a `-Raw` switch to `Select-String`, because I did not know what to expect from the process, and from the code.
That worked well for me.

#### Editor

You can use VSCode with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp), or you can use any version of Visual Studio.

> #### Find code for a CmdLet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Find code for a Cmdlet
```
There's probably more of these, but I'm about to hit the limit for allowed comments in a single review 😂

Reviewer: I'll do another pass this weekend if you like. 🙂

Author: Yes please, your feedback is awesome! I love your eye for detail. And your insight in the process is also very valuable. I'm going to finish processing your comments tomorrow morning, and maybe polish some things here and there. If you can find time to have a look after that, that would be great. 
I find I'm juggling between describing things in general vs detailed steps/tips, I will look into that. Thoughts welcome on that too.

### 8. Write C# code for PowerShell

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Sign [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com/)
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)
> - Pester knowledge/know how to run test suite
> - An Integrated Development Environment that supports C#, like VSCode or Visual Studio
> - C# knowledge

When you solve an issue from the PowerShell/PowerShell repo by submitting code, you can make people's lives easier! 

Depending on your level of C# knowledge and experience, pick an issue that suits you, and let others know by commenting on the issue, that you would like to take it on.

> I picked a very small [issue](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/pull/9901), adding a `-Raw` switch to `Select-String`, because I did not know what to expect from the process, and from the code.
That worked well for me.

#### Editor

You can use VSCode with the [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp), or you can use any version of Visual Studio.

#### Find code for a Cmdlet

There is a lot of code in PowerShell.

> So where do you find the code you need to edit in order to solve the issue you picked? If you are are looking for the code for a specific Cmdlet, let's say `Get-Host`, you could search the codebase for 'Get-Host' and filter only \*.cs files, but you would not find it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So where do you find the code you need to edit in order to solve the issue you picked?

If you are are looking for the code for a specific Cmdlet, let's say `Get-Host`, you could search the code base for 'Get-Host' and filter only \*.cs files, but you would not find it.
```

Author: fixed.

You will find if you search for 'Get, "Host' and filter \*.cs files only.
This is because Cmdlets names in C# are declared like this:

```C#
[Cmdlet(VerbsCommon.Get, "Host" /* abbreviated */ )]

> ```

Reviewer: Worth mentioning that in most cases the C# class name will be `VerbNounCommand` -- for example, `Where-Object` is `WhereObjectCommand`, etc.

Often I've found the quickest way to find a cmdlet is to look for `public class VerbNounCommand` -- you'll find basically every cmdlet quite easily that way. Much easier than hunting for the attribute :)

Author: added this:
Another way to find the the code for the Cmdlet you are looking for, is to search for a class with a name of the form `public class VerbNounCommand`. 
So in our `Get-Host` example, that would be `public class GetHostCommand`.

#### Similarities between advanced functions and C# CmdLets

> There are quite a few similarities between PowerShell advanced functions and how CmdLets need to be written in C#.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are quite a few similarities between PowerShell advanced functions and how Cmdlets need to be written in C#.
```

Reviewer: probably do a quick pass or find/replace for these 🙂

> For example, the way parameters and parametersets are defined, and that there can be a `Begin`, `Process` and `End` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the way parameters and parameter sets are defined, and that there can be a `Begin`, `Process` and `End` block.
```

Author: Fixed. These kind of errors are very hard for me to find: in Dutch you are allowed to write these kinds of words as one :) so thanks for pointing all these out!

# Ten ways of contributing to PowerShell OSS

## Why this blog

> I found [the documentation](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) on how to contribute to PowerShell/PowerShell a bit daunting.

Reviewer 2: "PowerShell/PowerShell"I don't think that's what you meant to write.

Author: It's a reference to the github.com/powershell/powershell repository, but I realise now, that is mayby not clear enough. If I change it to 'the PowerShell\PowerShell repository`, would that make things better?

- The [PowerShell Slack channel](https://aka.ms/psslack)\*
- The [PowerShell IRC channel](https://poshcode.org/#irc)\*
- The [PowerShell/PowerShell Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/PowerShell/PowerShell)

\*) Discord, Slack and IRC are bridged via a channel called #Bridge. Read more about this on <poshcode.org>.

### 2. Help confirm bugs

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account

Confirming bugs is going through recent bug report issues and trying to reproduce the bug.
This helps assess if a reported bug is really a bug or not.

A lot of new bug reports are going to have the ['Issue-Discussion'](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AIssue-Discussion) label, instead of 'Issue-Bug'. 
This is because when you first open an issue on the PowerShell project, the automatic label for a bug report is Issue-Discussion, which typically won't be changed until a maintainer or collaborator has seen that the bug has been confirmed / reproduced by others or can reproduce it themselves.

You can comment in the issue whether or not you could repro it, and on which version of PowerShell.
Always try to reproduce a bug on the latest version of PowerShell.

> Make sure you read the [FAQ](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/docs/FAQ.md) and the [known issues](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/whats-new/).

Reviewer 2: Dead link. The one on line 52 does work.

Author: Thanks! Fixed in an upcoming commit.

If a bug is not reproducible, more research may be needed.
You may be able to help the user who filed the bug with that.

> Tip: Consider 'Watching' the github repo.
You'll get a feel for what is going on daily.

### 3. Comment on language change proposals

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account

The following things currently require an RFC:

- Large-scale changes to cmdlets
- **Any** changes to core language features
- New language features
- Deprecation of outdated features

Anyone can submit a proposal and  request comments from the community and the PowerShell Team.
Typically, an RFC will remain open for two months, to give everyone the opportunity to comment.
At this point, the PowerShell Committee will make the decision to approve or reject the RFC.

The RFC may also be discussed in the monthly call if there is reason to.

The full process is explained here: <https://github.com/PowerShell/powershell-rfc/blob/master/RFC0000-RFC-Process.md>

By commenting on an RFC, you can influence how an idea is going to be implemented, if at all.
Comments are valuable for the community and the committee to make a balanced decision, weighing all voices.

> ### 4. Attend the monthly PowerShell community call

Reviewer 2: I would start with explaining what this is and then mention the requirements. Most important content first.

If you have a cool improvement for a Cmdlet, a new feature or just a great idea, you can submit it as a [feature request](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Issue-Enhancement&template=Feature_Request.md&title=Feature+Request).

The maintainers will look at your idea and let you know what they think.
All genuine feature requests are handled with respect.
So don't be afraid to share your thoughts! 

Do take the time to find out if your idea has been proposed before and what was decided and why.
You can filter on the label 'Issue-Enhancement'.

In some cases it may be a good move to 'test' your idea against a few people first, before taking the time to fully explain what you have in mind in an issue, a great place to do so would be the [PowerShell Discord/Slack/IRC channel](https://poshcode.org).

### 6. Contribute Help content

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Knowledge of Markdown
> 
> Optional
> 
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)

You can contribute by writing, improving, or expanding help files for Get-Help.
In particular, more examples for cmdlets are always welcome.

> Head over to the <https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/Powershell-Docs> repo, and read their [contributing manual](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

Reviewer 2: On the site, it's called **Contributor guide**. Maybe use the same name here?

Author: Thanks, great suggestion. Fixed.

> Tip: PowerShell Help is maintained for PowerShell versions 5.1 and higher. You may be asked to update help files for more than one version. 

> To do small contributions like correcting typos, just navigate to that file, click the 'Edit' button, and GitHub will create a copy (fork) on your own GitHub for you.

Reviewer 2: Long sentence with many commas. I would replace the ", and" between "button" and "GitHub" with a period. This will increase readability.

Author: fixed.

When you are satisfied with your changes, you can save them, and submit a pull request to the _staging_ branch of the PowerShell-Docs repository.

For bigger contributions, you are better off cloning your fork locally to your computer.
This enables you to use VSCode and other editing tools.
A guide on how to do that can be found [here](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/contributing/1-GET-STARTED.md#making-major-edits-to-existing-topics).

> With more examples, less typos, clearer wording, PowerShell can be easier to learn and use for everyone!

Reviewer 2: Precede the last item of the summary with "and" instead of a comma.

Author: :+1:

> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)
> - Know how to run tests
> - Pester 4.8 or higher 
> - Pester knowledge 

Within the PowerShell project, many parts are tested automatically.
A big part of that is done with Pester.
See [here](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/tree/master/test/powershell).

> Tip: At the time of writing, Pester version 4.8.0 is used in the PowerShell project [`build.psm1` module](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/a335063f1cb6596636031c2dc064fdf29924c5a7/build.psm1#L666).
This version pin will change in the future, as new versions of Pester become available.  

Many Cmdlets could use better or more extensive tests to verify they keep working correctly if someone changes them in the future.
So the Pester tests for Cmdlets are kind of a safeguard against regression.
When there are more/better tests for Cmdlets, you can possibly prevent future bugs!

See also [Details about contributing to the PowerShell/PowerShell repo](#Details-about-contributing-to-the-PowerShellPowerShell-repo), especially the section on how to run tests.

> ### 8. Write C# code for PowerShell

Reviewer 2: Can you add a bit of explanation of what the link between C# and PS is? There's a lot of how here and I could use a little why..

Reviewer: The short version is: PowerShell as an engine and a language is entirely written in C#. 🙂 The PS engine compiles PS code to .NET IL for execution.

Author: Great point. I'll add that as the first sentence to this chapter.

When you have little C# experience, but have written advanced PowerShell functions, you can still find your way.
When reading through the code, your starting point should be the `[Cmdlet()]` Attribute.
This is where parameters will be declared, just like in PowerShell.
And you will notice C# Cmdlets have `BeginProcessing`, `ProcessRecord` and `EndProcessing` instead of the `Begin`, `Process` and `End` block.
After you have a little idea of what that looks like, find answers to questions that arise in the SDK linked above.

#### Finding your way in the code

If you are not super familiar with C# these tips may help you: 

- When you are working on a Cmdlet, you can set _breakpoints_ to be able to step through the code
- When you need information about where a certain method, property or variable comes from, use `F12` to [navigate to its definition](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/editingevolved#_go-to-definition) 

> 

Reviewer: If you can find another blog post or something detailing how to set breakpoints and use the debugger for VS Code and/or Visual Studio to link here, I think that'd be very beneficial. Or at the very least link to your below section which has those links already, I think. 🙂 

Also, worth mentioning that the F12 go-to-definition shortcut is also available from the right-click context menu.

> Tip: If you want to learn more about VSCode debugging for PowerShell, you can read more [here on the Microsoft scripting blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/scripting/debugging-powershell-script-in-visual-studio-code-part-1/), or watch [this video](https://youtu.be/cSbIXmlkr8o) from Tyler Leonhardt at PSconfEU 2019. The same principles work for the C# extension, as well as for Visual Studio.

See also [Details about contributing to the PowerShell/PowerShell repo](#Details-about-contributing-to-the-PowerShellPowerShell-repo).

### 9. Write C# xUnit tests

> Requires
> 
> - GitHub account
> - Sign [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com/)
> - Git and some knowledge of it
> - Knowledge of GitHub workflow (fork > clone > PR)
> - Know how to run tests
> - Knowledge of the xUnit framework
> - C# knowledge

Only a small portion of all tests in the PowerShell/PowerShell repo are xUnit tests.
Most other tests are written in Pester.
Be sure to contact the PowerShell Team if you want to contribute here.

> Most of the xUnit tests test internal PowerShell stuff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the xUnit tests test internal PowerShell code or public APIs that are only accessible directly from the System.Managemet.Automation namespace.
```

You will need:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop), configure a shared folder
- Give the Docker VM more RAM than just the default 2048MB if you can spare it, it will give you a nicer experience.
- VSCode [remote-development extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack)

Read more [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview).

The first time, it will ask you to install recommended VSCode extensions, and loading the project may fail because of the missing extensions. 

- Install the recommended extensions and reload
- If VSCode tells you 'There are unresolved dependencies.' Click `Restore`

Now your environment should be all set.

- The terminal defaults to Bash. To start PowerShell, simply type `pwsh` 
- You can now load the `build.psm1` module with `Import-Module ./build.psm1` 
- In some cases you may need to run `Start-PSBuild -Clean`

### How to run a test

To run a test, you need to build the pwsh binaries first, and you need the test-tool.
Also note, if you run all tests, that's going to take some time.
Good thing there is an easy way!

> In the base of the repository there is a module 'build.ps1', that has all kind of handy Cmdlets in it for this kind of thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the base of the repository there is a module 'build.psm1', that has all kinds of handy Cmdlets in it for this kind of thing.
```

Load it like this:

`Import-Module .\build.psm1`

(If you want to know which tools are inside, use `Get-Command -Module build`)

> The very fist time, you need to set up a few things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The very first time, you need to set up a few things.
```

Author: lol, fixed

To do that, run `Start-PsBootstrap` (may need sudo/adminstrative privileges, depending on your system.
On a docker container, it needs the `-NoSudo` switch).

You also need to build the pwsh binaries for the tests to run against: `Start-PsBuild`

> Tip: If you encounter weird build errors, just run `Start-PSBuild -Clean`.

> This is generally a good idea every time you update your branch, or after a rebase.

Reviewer: I've generally found there are 3 cases you need to run a clean build:

- You _always_ need to run a clean build the first time you build.
- Good to run a clean build after rebasing or merging in new changes from the main PowerShell repo as you mentioned.
- Any time you're needing to update `.resx` files with new strings, you will need to run a clean build, or a build with the `-ResGen` switch

And of course, if you're getting odd errors 😂

Author: I integrated this into the Tip.

Now you could simply run `Start-PSPester` to kick off a build, and run ALL Pester tests.
This would take some time, and this is still not what you want to do when writing extra tests, or improving existing ones.
So what do we do instead? We tell `Start-PSPester` which testfile we want to run:

`Start-PSPester -Path .\test\powershell\Modules\Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\Get-Command.Tests.ps1`

You will notice that it rebuilds test tool binaries each time you use Start-PSPester.
This takes time and usually we only need to build these binaries once.
To suppress new builds, you add the `-SkipTestToolBuild` switch:

`Start-PSPester -Path .\test\powershell\Modules\Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\Get-Command.Tests.ps1 -SkipTestToolBuild`

> When writing and debugging your tests, remember that you can set breakpoints and step through your Pester code, this can help you find out where things are not going as they | Should -Be :-).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When writing and debugging your tests, remember that you can set breakpoints and step through your Pester code, this can help you find out where things are not going as they `| Should -Be` :-).
```

> Tip: If you want to learn more about VSCode debugging for PowerShell, you can read more [here on the Microsoft scripting blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/scripting/debugging-powershell-script-in-visual-studio-code-part-1/), or watch [this video](https://youtu.be/cSbIXmlkr8o) from Tyler Leonhardt at PSconfEU 2019.

For specific tips about how to use Pester within the PowerShell repo, be sure to read this document as an addendum to the Pester documentation: <https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/docs/testing-guidelines/WritingPesterTests.md>

### Updating your fork

> So you have forked one of the GitHub repos, cloned it, tried stuff, but never created a PR. And now that fork is six months behind its ancester. How to update it? I'll describe how to do this for the PowerShell repo, this works the same for the other repos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So you have forked one of the GitHub repos, cloned it, tried stuff, but never created a PR, and now that fork is six months behind its ancestor.
How to update it?
I'll describe how to do this for the PowerShell repo, and this will work the same way for the other repos.
```

Author: Woops, yes. That will take some getting used to :-)

> To update your GitHub fork, you will first update your local clone, and for that, you need to tell your local repository to which remote to look. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update your GitHub fork, you will first update your local clone, and for that, you need to tell your local repository which remote to look to.
```

- See which remotes are configured for your local repo: `git remote -v`
- If there is an entry with `https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell.git` in it, remember its name. It will usually be called 'upstream'
- If there is no entry present with that url, add it by typing:
`git remote add upstream https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell.git`

> - Make sure there is an entry 'origin' with the url of your own GitHub url: `https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell.git` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure there is an entry 'origin' with the url of your own GitHub url: `https://github.com/<YOUR_GITHUB_NAME>/PowerShell.git` 
```

Author: Ah! This. You read what I intended to write :) good catch.

Make sure you have no uncommitted work on your branch. Stash or revert any uncommitted changes, and checkout to the master branch:

- To stash changes, go `git stash`
- To checkout master, do `git checkout master`

Now we need to check for changes and pull them in.

- Tell git to find out if there are changes in any of its remotes: `git fetch --all -p`
- Tell git to rebase your local repo on the 'upstream' remote (replace the name 'upstream' if necessary):
`git rebase upstream/master`

> Rebasing is the way to tell git to replay your work on top of the other changes that were merged to master in the mean time. So now we have pulled in all changes from the original repo into our clone locally. These changes need to be pushed to your GitHub fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rebasing is the way to tell git to replay your work on top of the other changes that were merged to master in the mean time.
So now we have pulled in all changes from the original repo into our clone locally.
These changes need to be pushed to your GitHub fork.
```

Reviewer: Probably also worth mentioning somewhere in here that you can supply the `-i` flag to `git rebase` in order to review a list of your commits and modify them if needed as you replay them.

> - Tell git to push local changes to origin: `git push` or `git push origin/master`.

Reviewer: After a rebase, you will almost always need to `git push --force-with-lease`, otherwise the changes will be rejected due to the divergent histories.

Reviewer: Also, if you're just pulling changes to the master branch and not your working branch, you usually won't even need to rebase; typically `git pull upstream master` is sufficient to pull the commits in, and then you can just `git push`.

Reviewer: And if you've made a mess of your master branch, you can get it back to the current upstream "clean" state with `git reset --hard upstream/master` (this will completely replace your current working branch with what's there on the targeted branch, so be sure that's what you want first; there's no `undo` for that operation that I'm presently aware of).

Author: This made me realise most contributors will not need to cooperate on a branch and thus don't really need to rebase, as you point out, pull will do.

For more detailed instructions with screenshots, see [here](https://info.sapien.com/index.php/version-control/github-how-to-update-your-fork).

### Submitting your contribution 

Do small git commits while you work, and don't forget to git push the work on your branch every once in a while.
When you are satisfied with your work, you can create a Pull Request.
You can create a PR from your own GitHub on the branch you created for you work on this.
It helps to reference your original Issue where you asked for guidance what to work on, use a '#' sign and put the number of your Issue behind it.

> Fill any fields the PR requests from you.

Reviewer: Probably good to mention that if you're fixing a bug or fulfilling a feature request, you can add text like `fixes #801` or `resolves #900` to tag it for Github, so that it knows to automatically close the issue when the pull request is merged. Just saves the project maintainers a few extra minutes. 🙂

Author: good point. added line about that.

Once you have created a PR, the automated CI process will start to run.
It will run ALL tests, on Windows, Linux and OSX.
You can follow the status of the running tests in your PR.
It takes around 20 minutes or so to finish.
Every time you push a new commit to your branch that you created the PR from, it will trigger a new CI run.

> If you want to signal the maintainers that you are working on stuff, but are not ready yet, you can rename your PR to start with `WIP:` for Work In Progress.

Reviewer: Github also has a native WIP option for PRs when you first open them too (it's a drop-down option on the Submit button for PRs)

Author: I could not for the life of me find it _after_ having already created the PR -and I was fairly sure it existed before. This explains things, lol

Every Pull Request in the PowerShell repo gets an assignee.
A person who you can ask for help when something is not working properly (sometimes CI can be glitchy and fail on something else than your code), or if you just have a question.
Be patient - half of the work on the PowerShell repository is being done by volunteers, members of the community like you who do this in their spare time.
And staff members of the PowerShell Team have all kinds of tasks assigned to them.

Your work in the PR will be reviewed by two maintainers.
They will ask you to change things here and there, maybe even about code you did not touch, _because, just like you, they love PowerShell_ and they want the best for the product.
If you don't know what they mean, just say so, no worries.
They are all very helpful and friendly people.
It can take a few weeks for the whole review/finetuning process to complete.

> Once all the CI checks turn green, and your reviewers are satisfied, your PR will be merged and your code is added to the codebase :-)

Reviewer: Might be a good idea to note that releases are done roughly every month or two, so it may be some weeks before merged code shows up in a public release version. 🙂

## Closing remarks

I hope this blog will help you find your way contributing to PowerShell. 

> It's a great language, an even greater community. This offers all kinds of chances to learn new things, and meet new like minded people!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a great language, and an even greater community.
This offers all kinds of chances to learn new things, and meet new like-minded people!
```

Author: fixed

### Updating your fork

So you have forked one of the GitHub repos, cloned it, tried stuff, but never created a PR. 
And now that fork is six months behind its ancester. 
How to update it? 
I'll describe how to do this for the PowerShell repo, this works the same for the other repos.

To update your GitHub fork, you will first update your local clone, and for that, you need to tell your local repository which remote to look to.

- See which remotes are configured for your local repo: `git remote -v`
- If there is an entry with `https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell.git` in it, remember its name. It will usually be called 'upstream'
- If there is no entry present with that url, add it by typing:
`git remote add upstream https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell.git`
- Make sure there is an entry 'origin' with the url of your own GitHub url: `https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_NAME/PowerShell.git` 

Make sure you have no uncommitted work on your branch. 
Stash or revert any uncommitted changes, and checkout to the master branch:

- To stash changes, go `git stash`
- To checkout master, do `git checkout master`

> Now we need to check for changes and pull them in.

Reviewer 2: Maybe you can tell something about merge conflicts? That would seem to be on par with the technical level you're explaining things on.

Author: I have thought about this one. I think I will leave it out
- Because that would not be so encouraging 
- I don't really have any general advice about what to do when it happens, it all depends on how the merge conflict came into existence.

- Tell git to rebase your local repo on the 'upstream' remote (replace the name 'upstream' if necessary):
`git rebase upstream/master`

Rebasing is the way to tell git to replay your work on top of the other changes that were merged to master in the mean time. 
So now we have pulled in all changes from the original repo into our clone locally. 
These changes need to be pushed to your GitHub fork.

- Tell git to push local changes to origin: `git push` or `git push origin/master`

For more detailed instructions with screenshots, see [here](https://info.sapien.com/index.php/version-control/github-how-to-update-your-fork).

### Submitting your contribution 

Do small git commits while you work, and don't forget to git push the work on your branch every once in a while.
When you are satisfied with your work, you can create a Pull Request.
You can create a PR from your own GitHub on the branch you created for you work on this.
It helps to reference your original Issue where you asked for guidance what to work on, use a '#' sign and put the number of your Issue behind it.
Fill any fields the PR requests from you.

> Once you have created a PR, the automated CI process will start to run.

Reviewer 2: This is the first time you mention CI. I think it would be nice to fully write out the abbreviation and perhaps give it a link to a page explaining it.

Author: good point, thank you. Added that and a link that shows an example.

Every Pull Request in the PowerShell repo gets an assignee.
A person who you can ask for help when something is not working properly (sometimes CI can be glitchy and fail on something else than your code), or if you just have a question.
Be patient - half of the work on the PowerShell repository is being done by volunteers, members of the community like you who do this in their spare time.
And staff members of the PowerShell Team have all kinds of tasks assigned to them.

Your work in the PR will be reviewed by two maintainers.
They will ask you to change things here and there, maybe even about code you did not touch, _because, just like you, they love PowerShell_ and they want the best for the product.
If you don't know what they mean, just say so, no worries.
They are all very helpful and friendly people.
It can take a few weeks for the whole review/finetuning process to complete.

Once all the CI checks turn green, and your reviewers are satisfied, your PR will be merged and your code is added to the codebase :-)

## Closing remarks

I hope this blog will help you find your way contributing to PowerShell. 

> It's a great language, an even greater community. This offers all kinds of chances to learn new things, and meet new like minded people!

Reviewer 2: *like-minded
